Kazakhstan

I have been waiting for this trip for such a long time. I fell in love with Central Asia after my trip to Uzbekistan 3 years ago. Instagram spoils you so much these days! All the reels about Kazakhstan were making me dream, so I decided to go to Almaty.

I flew with Pegasus airlines from Brussels Charleroi (Brussels to Istanbul, Istanbul to Almaty). Long flight but then that was the best option for me! Almaty airport is pretty nice and has good facilities. I reached very early morning and thus decided to rest a bit there. The passport control was very smooth. I was happy since I did not need a visa.

I will some of the important things I did at the airport:

Sim card: there are a few operators but they offer similar prices. I took one unlimited internet pack for around 10 euros but you can also use an esim if you prefer that.

Transport: To go from the airport to the city, there are a few options: you can take a taxi or the public bus. I decided to use the public bus (paid 200 KZT). But Yandex is also cool since it offers amazing prices all over Kazakhstan.

Almaty is quite a big city. After a long bus ride, I managed to reach my hostel. I stayed at the Golden Square hostel. I had a good experience, the hostel was affordable and at a nice location (Check out Golden Square on Booking.com!  https://www.booking.com/Share-4XxD6o)

The first day, I decided to walk around the city. I went to the Green Bazaar and it was a spectacle. You know the bazaars in Central Asia are amazing places that bring people together. I started with tasting pickled vegetables, then tried some Halwa and after that fresh Mango juice. The shopkeepers will always let you sample things and have some cash on you. Generally, cards are also ok but some only prefer cash, I think. There is also a local payment system called Kaspi but you need some effort to set it up. If you are going to stay for a long time, I definitely recommend it since it is going to make your life easier. 

Of course, you need to spoil yourself with local food as fast as you could. I tried some pastries near the Green bazaar.

Photo

Then, I went to Bayurdaq to try Beshbarmak. I ended up also having a cheesecake and horse milk. I had not tried horse milk before and that was an interesting experience. The prices are very good here. Beshbarmark was under 10 euros.

Photo

The second and third day were the most exciting days of my trip. I decided to book a trip with Get My Guide and it turned out to be a genuinely good decision. I went for an overnight trip specially because I wanted to stay in the yurts and see the stars. Kazakhstan is spectacular for stargazing.

Definitely recommend this trip: https://www.getyourguide.com/en-gb/almaty-city-l1414/almaty-kolsai-kaindy-lakes-charyn-canyons-2-day-tour-t489855/?ranking_uuid=9c5aaeed-211c-4775-9b2b-45706d9edfa3

Summary: “Join a 2-day adventure in Almaty Region with stunning lakes, canyons, and authentic Kazakh culture. Stay in a yurt, enjoy local food, bonfires, and travel with a fun international group of tourists””

Important things to have for the trip:

Some cash for personal expenses

Important medicines

Passport

Light jacket, could get a bit chilly at places

Water and some snacks

The best part of this trip was the group of people. I met people from everywhere: El Salvador, Spain, Taiwan, Thailand, Hong Kong, Germany, Slovenia, Indonesia, Poland, Singapore, Afghanistan, Philippines and we got along so well. Our guide was local from Kazakhstan and she was really good too and I learnt a lot of things from her like: Almaty is pronounced as Almata, and it means alma means apple. We had decent time to enjoy every spot. The lunch was soooo good.

photo

The best part of the first day was the yurt stay at night. We went to a spectacular remote location and then to our assigned yurts. The yurts are pretty modern, well-insulated and with charging facilities. We also had a bonfire at night and ended up playing a game where we learnt each other’s names and countries, also did a Karaoke. 

And the moment I was waiting for finally came. SEEING THE STARS AT NIGHT. Although, there was some light from the surroundings, I waited for things to be engulfed by the silence of the night. And at some point, I could see the Milky way! I felt so good, being alone at night, under the stars. I opened my Stellarium app and checked some constellations. I can do this every night!

Photo

The next day, we woke up and had a nice breakfast. Then we went to the Kolsai and Kaindy lakes, did some horse riding, boating and enjoyed the pristine nature. After that, we went to Charyn Canyon. It was hot as hell but the landscape just makes up for it. The geography is worth admiring, the centuries old magic of nature just mesmerizes you! The variety that Kazakhstan offers is truly special.

Photos

When we were back in Almaty, it was super late but then we decided to go for Korean food. I was so bad with chopsticks: so, this is something I have decided to learn seriously in the near future, to be a master of them or at least not be so embarrassing with chopsticks.

Day4 was for Medeu valley and Shymbalik. “The Medeu is a high-altitude sports complex near Almaty, located at an altitude of 1,691 meters above sea level. It is considered to be the world's largest high-mountain skating rink.” Being an ice skating enthusiast, I was a bit sad that I could not enter because of ongoing constructions. I definitely want to go back one day and skate there 😊

I went up the health staircase and of course, the views were spectacular. “The Health Staircase is visited for sporting purposes and leisurely ascents and descents because not everyone can overcome all 842 steps without breaks. You can find “special” rest areas along the stairs. The reward for the climb is an incomparable view of the Medeu ice skating rink, the dam, the Trans-Ili Alatau, and the city, which opens from the observation deck.” (https://en.tengrinews.kz/guide-map_object/95/)

We came back to the cable car place and bought the tickets. Round trip tickets cost around 21 euros. The tickets seemed a bit expensive to me but in the end, I felt it was pretty worth it. The whole journey from a landscape of lush greens to a snowy spectacle at the top was so cool. You can spend a whole day around the Medeu valley.

In the evening, I went to a local book store and bought The Little Prince in Kazakh for me and my friend. Almaty turns quite festive and colorful at night, so always good for a walk.

The day after, I was with a friend roaming around the city and we decided to go to the big Almaty lake by getting a Yandex taxi. We were unlucky though: we got interrupted in the middle, there was a checkpoint and some guy asked for an exorbitant amount of money to go to the lake. We decided to come back. If you wanna go to the lake and do not have your own car, it is best to go with a tour group. In the evening, we went to the Kok Tobe park. I gathered some courage to be on the roller coaster. I would definitely recommend it during sunset or night.

My last day in Almaty was a chill day. Lots of walking and local food. I was too tired to do another trip. I have left Assy plateau and other places for next time.